okay so this is a little bit of an
experiment in how we might be able to
better deliver some of the content of
this course I think a lot of the stuff
that we've been doing at the front to
everyone
hasn't been landing as well as we want
it to and care the same actually for a
lot of things that we've done in our
three separate groups we can do a lot
more stuff there but they're still kind
of those groups is still too big really
faster to do what we wanted to do so
this is I guess a little bit of an
experiment in talking through some of
the content of course some of the theory
doing a bit of coding together and
trying to do that in a way where you can
go through it at your own pace pausing
the video where you need to or like
skipping sections if you need to but
also still be able to like ask questions
and all of that sort of stuff so I think
roughly the way that this is gonna work
is I've got this video I'm I'm making
right I will have made by the time
you've this is the video I am making it
and we're gonna set up some places where
it will pause automatically for you to
catch up with the code when we're
writing code and there should also be
something on the screen where you can
ask a question and I imagine that's
gonna like probably ping us on slack and
then we'll like reply to you and slack
will answers to your questions
anywhere where something seems a bit a
little bit confusing or whatever or
potentially will just come over and have
a chat to you about it
so the idea is that we can deliver this
content to you in a way where you can go
through at your own pace but still get
the more individualized support from us
that you need when you need it
and maybe it will work hopefully you'll
be able to give us some feedback
afterwards so we're gonna be talking
about object-oriented JavaScript and
we've already spent the morning talking
about some of the concepts of object
oriented programming and object oriented
design
okay so we've talked about how objects
represent things in the real world that
we want to use in our programs and
that's true in a lot of cases but not
not always true often object oriented
programs end up having objects that
aren't necessarily real-world things but
I like to think them think of them as
like machines in our code that do
different things and act in a certain
way so we've talked about how classes
are like blueprints or templates for
objects in our code they list all the
attributes so the information about that
thing and all of the methods which are
author all the stuff that that thing can
do so objects are actual instances of a
class so people every single person
every one of us might be an instance of
the human class if I'm creating a
service like Spotify probably I have a
song class and lots of individual songs
that are instances of that so you might
remember this diagram from earlier on
the idea of having cows and we have a
small red cow and a long blue cow so
they both have the both unique they both
have some separate information regarding
them but they both embody this like
overarching concept of being a cow they
are both cows they just one is a cow
it's red and my as a cow if it's blue
so classes have attributes which is the
data or you can think of them as the
variables in the class and they also
have methods which are the actions that
the class can take which are also a type
of function and we've been using class
diagrams like this to help us design
classes they have our class name at the
top which always starts where the
capital all of the attributes the
information associated with a class and
that includes any of the usually
includes the data type and also any of
the methods or actions that we had which
tend to include the inputs and output
type as well if they have a return value
so in JavaScript there's also something
called the constructor and all classes
typically there actually have to have a
constructor but most classes in
JavaScript will have a constructor and
the constructor is used to build or make
the technical term is instantiate object
of that class so if we had our cow class
from earlier on then the constructor
would be the thing that makes the color
red and the size 20 or whatever it was
there's also this special word this
inside classes and this is it's very
it's like a special variable that refers
to the current object so in
object-oriented programming objects have
this idea of their self like in this
current object that we're talking about
right now and using this magic this word
they can refer to their own attributes
and methods so this dot name or this dot
go home or whatever the
things are so this is what we're gonna
be making and it doesn't look like much
unfortunately but what we have here are
four buttons in p5 they've got this
little subtle hover effect so they
change color when I mouse over them and
when I click on one I get the noise that
the animal on the label makes so dog
says woof cat says meow go says now and
no one has what most Turtles make so
that's fine so this is what we're going
to be making and for the object oriented
part we're just going to be focusing on
the button the object oriented class for
the button because one of the things the
object-oriented code is great for is
code reuse so that we avoid repetition
in our code because you know I could if
I wanted to program this by drawing it
like you know including rect in my code
like four times to draw out all of these
rectangles and I could include like some
big complicated if statements to work
out like the position of the mouse and
whether or not it's hovering over each
button to do the hover effect and the
clicking but you know maybe I can do
that just once for all of the buttons
and end up with a piece of code that's
much simpler and more reusable but I can
use to really easily you know add these
four buttons and then as many extra
buttons as I wanted in the future so
that's going to be our aim to create a
reusable button class let's start by
thinking about the design of this this
class we're gonna want so we're gonna
want some attributes and we're gonna
want some methods
[Music]
so let's start with just the the name
button seems like a reasonable name for
for this class and I'm gonna just put in
that rough sort of structure so we know
what we're talking about if our name
attributes and our methods so what are
the things that we need this
there's button to be able to do well we
need it to well if you think about the
ones in our example they had a few like
bits and pieces there that we can kind
of assume we already had we noticed
each one had a unique label so we want
to add a label which is gonna be a
string they also had a position so we
should include X&Y coordinates for the
position and both of those are gonna be
numbers
that's probably all we need like if you
wanted to you could go ahead and include
like width and height and you know we
could go all out if we wanted and think
about like colors and all that but I'm
kind of just gonna gonna stick with
these three because I think those are
probably like the most important for
replicating what we have on there for
width and height and stuff I can just
hard code that for now and maybe update
my code later on if I want to be able to
customize the size of the buttons so
then we have the methods and really I
think there's there's only one
particular method that we need to
include in here and that's gonna be
whether or not
it contains a particular point so it
contains point and that's gonna take an
X and/or Y and it's gonna return a
boolean value so this is a sort of way
of this doesn't actually do anything to
our button but we're asking it a
question and getting a value back so
we're saying to the button if we were to
call this does the button contain the
point XY as in like is this point within
the range of the rectangle of the button
yes on it and we'll get a boolean true
or false telling us that and actually
you know we could take this one step
further if you wanted and simplify to
give it give us an additional method
called say contains mouse
which we could just use to like cool
contains point with Mouse X mouse Y is a
sort of convenience thing to just say
save us a little bit of time
the only other method that I know we're
gonna need is the constructor and this
is the thing that's going to set up all
the information for our button so the
constructor is the thing that gives it
all of those attributes to start off
with and I'm doing that one in green
because it's all my pen stopped working
oh well doing that one in green because
it's kind of a a little bit of a special
one so this is it this is the class
design for our album we've got the name
we've got the attributes of a label and
the position and then we've got these
few methods really really like not
really doing an awful lot just some ways
of asking the button if the mouse is
inside it maybe later on we to add some
other methods for like changing how it
looks or that sort of thing but for now
this is probably all we need so let's
try and kick this off I'm gonna start
I've got my terminal and my editor up
side by side here and I'm gonna start by
just going to my project folder you it
might be on your desktop for me mine
lives in here and creating a new folder
for this project so I'm going to call it
rubbish
sound board and I can CD
okay and I'm also going to set this up
as a git repository so get in it and the
two files that I need for creating a new
p5 sketch by my index dot HTML and my
sketch digest so what I'm going to do is
in my editor I'm going to open up a
folder and find find my rubbish Chambord
project here there we go and create
those two files add index dot HTML and
sketch dot yes close this window okay so
I know that one of the places but I can
find the HTML for a new sketch because I
can't remember it rubbing my head is on
github for the day one workshop from
last week so I'm just gonna go on to get
book and find that link Launchpad week
three programming and here we are
it should be under Part C here we are
index dot HTML so I can just copy paste
the code here into my index dot HTML and
I'm going to change the title to be
rubbish sound board there we go
if I hit save now this should all be
working properly to get this going I'm
not actually gonna worry about serve or
MPN style or anything like that I'm just
gonna open up finder and oh there we go
in my protects folder I'm gonna find my
rubber to stand board and just open
index.html with Google Chrome because I
want to use Chrome for this because I
know that Chrome is sometimes like
easier to work with and has nicer
development tools so there we go we have
our completely blank page now so that's
all good okay now we can start writing
our sketch so I'm gonna start with just
some very sort of normal p5e stuff we
want our setup function I'm gonna create
a canvas of 400 by 400 which is I think
the size that has basically been the
standard that we've used now and then we
want our draw function and in here I'm
gonna draw a background of a sort of
light gray maybe 220 out of 255 probably
is gonna be a reasonable color so let's
go refresh this now yeah this looks all
good okay so when it comes to creating
my ball and my ball class and starting
to do sorry
button when it comes to creating my
button class and working with this
typically it's a good idea to create
right your new classes in separate files
just to keep things nice and tidy so I'm
gonna open up my file explorer add a new
file
I'm gonna call it button with a capital
B Jess
okay so now I can start actually writing
object-oriented JavaScript now there's a
few bits and pieces that make up a class
in JavaScript and just like variables
and just like functions they start with
the word class so class button and then
a pair of curly braces for the contents
of the button then inside here is where
we write all of our methods now
the methods are basically functions and
you can think of how they're written as
almost like writing a function but not
quite right so if we think about if we
wanted to write the special constructor
function that's the one that sets up the
button and creates all of the attributes
we might start by writing function
constructor but this actually isn't
quite right because we're inside a class
javascript knows that we're gonna have a
bunch of methods in here bunch of
functions so we don't actually need this
function keyword at the start we can
just say constructor any inputs which
for now we're not having any and the the
body of the function which for now I'm
just gonna say a console dot log two so
we can show it's working we made button
okay back in our sketch we could maybe
if we wanted to start trying to use our
button already so once you have a class
which for us is this button class here
the way that you create objects from
that class is with this special keyword
new so you say new and then the name of
the class and then just like calling a
function you use parentheses for any
inputs I want to take the result of this
which is going to be our actual button
object the specific button that we
create from calling new button and save
that in a variable let's make this one
be the dog okay
so if I save this now and flip back over
to Chrome then when I run the page
nothing really seems to happen and if I
open up the inspector and go on the
console we're gonna see this error here
uncaught reference error button is not
defined in sketch dot J's line one and
what it's saying there is it doesn't
know what button is even though we've
written it in the class over here it
doesn't know what we're talking about
the way that we teach it is by linking
both of these files together in index
dot HTML you might have noticed if
you've read through this we've got these
two script tags one of them is including
some where CloudFlare and then p5.js and
the other one is just a link to our
sketch DOJ's
so we can include our button here by
adding another script tag but it needs
to come before sketch dot yes because
sketch relies on button so the button
has to exist before the code in sketch
runs if I save that now and switch back
to Chrome then we get our we made a
button alert and console and we can also
actually start playing around a little
bit with some things in here like if I
take it type in book button then the
console is going to tell us that it is a
and there's no other information inside
it that's just this proto thing but we
don't need to worry about that because
it's sort of how JavaScript works
internally so we can also use button
itself to refer to our new class and
maybe we could even make some new ones
in the console you want it to there we
go
another button and we get our
comfortable message logged out just the
same because every single time we run
new button the contents of this
constructor function gets run so let's
take a look at our class diagram we've
got a few bits and pieces here we've got
the label which is a string and then the
x and y coordinates which are both
numbers and in order to start using
these to get actually get these into our
class in our code we need to add them in
the constructor so I'm going to remove
our console log for now and I'm gonna
make it so that label x and y get given
to the button as parameters arguments
inputs to the constructor so for my
inputs
I want the label on X and I want Y and
again I'm just gonna console.log those
values label X Y
now I'm just gonna add a little bit of
another message at the top saying what
we're doing so if we go and run this
code now what we should see is well
actually we're going to see anything
right now because our button isn't
getting any inputs passed to it yet so
we can go and check that if we go
refresh the page so making any button
and right now label x and y our inputs
are all undefined if we go and sketch
guess we can add these in let's say
we'll be dog and loops and the X see my
editor is helpfully come up with some
hints for me the x value can be a number
so let's make it 10 and 10 so if I save
that now and refresh then there we go
making a new button our inputs are
coming through to get logged out so how
do we actually turn these inputs to our
constructor into attributes that we can
use well we need to go back to that
special this keyword that we were
talking about a little bit at the
beginning of this video so this refers
to the current object so it's the button
that we're making right now in the
concert in the constructor and in other
methods it will be the button that the
method was called on so we can say this
dot label equals label so this is almost
like creating a variable on the class
called label you can tell us on the
class on the object rather because of
the this keyword and taking the value
from that we were given in the
constructor
and putting it in there so oops
can do the same with X&Y now and I think
just to show what's going on I'm gonna
console.log this at the end so we can
see what the value of this is so let's
save that and go and run our code okay
so we have our same consult logs from
before but we also now have the place
where we logged out this we can see it's
a button but now I've actually got some
information we can see it's a button
with a label dog an exposition of ten
and a Y position of ten so actually if
we refer back to our class diagram now
we've done like more than half we've
done we've got the name bits order we've
got classical button and we've added all
three attributes the label the x
position and the y position oh we've
done a constructor as well I guess
anyway I'm going to remove these console
door locks and I'm also actually going
to commit my code at this point and
maybe should've done that a little bit
earlier
okay hopefully you've been following
along with this and pausing the button
sorry pausing the video where you need
to but if you haven't been doing that so
far now it's probably a really good time
to hit pause or maybe even rewind it
rewind a little bit and make sure we're
both at the same place because you
should be following along with this it's
good practice so something that I've
realized actually is we missed off one
of the methods in our class diagram
we've got a way of checking if the
button contains a particular point or if
it's being hovered by the mouse but we
didn't actually have a way of getting
our button to draw itself to the screen
you know we could if we wanted to write
our own code in the draw method to draw
each of these buttons out but it would
be better if we could just tell the
button to draw itself and it would
handle it for us so we're gonna add a
draw method in here that doesn't take
any parameters it just draws the
contents of the button so I'm actually
gonna start in sketched a dress by
modifying it to use this new method I'm
gonna say dog
button dot draw so I'm using the dot to
access information on the the dog button
and I'm using the parentheses to tell it
that I'm expecting to call this as a
function so whenever you see a function
call with a dot like this you can think
of it as a little bit of an instruction
so I'm saying to button draw I'm telling
the dog button to draw itself if I save
this and run the code now then I should
get some errors because we have an
implemented draw yeah there we go
uncaught type error dog button blood
draw is not a function
so we can go in and add our draw method
on button and because this is only
concerned with button we don't have to
worry about any of the other aspects of
drawing our scene so just like we did
with our constructor we're gonna write a
little bit like we'd write a function
but without the word function so the
name any inputs between parameters and
we don't have any so we're just gonna
leave it blank and then the curly braces
for the body or the contents of our
method and I want us to draw just a
rectangle oops
and all of that is I want the rectangle
to be so that X unwind position of the
rectangle I want to be the X unwind
position of the button so I need to
refer to the current object so the
specific button that we've created from
this class so I do that with this I want
to know the X property so the x
coordinate so I can do this dot X so and
the same for y I start Y and I'm just
gonna choose a couple values for the
width and a height I guess a hundred
pixels wide and 30 pixels tall so just
reading this through we're saying the a
button knows how to draw itself and to
draw itself it was a rectangle at this
dot X this to Y where this is the
current object position and then we give
it this hard-coded width and height so
if I save this and go back over here and
run now then sure enough we're actually
starting to get
[Music]
something that looks a little bit like a
button showing over here now the cool
thing about this is because it's an
object we can still type of button in
our console and get something that we
can inspect we can actually change it
here as well so maybe I want to see what
happens if I change X to 100 oh the
button moves over and I can do the same
with Wi-Fi one so that's kind of cool
this is a pretty nice way of testing
whether or not like your object is doing
what you expect it to just opening up
the console and playing around and
seeing what happens interacting with it
very directly okay back over here I want
to add a label and I know that to do
this I need the text method in p5 but I
I can't actually remember the order that
the the inputs go for it I'm just going
to go on the p5 reference I'm gonna use
command F to search for text and here we
go text I know this is like a few other
things here like text align text leading
do not that is size style with I might
check some of those out later but here
we go text words and then two numbers so
I'm guessing that's gonna be yeah here
we go the string and the x-coordinate
and y-coordinate okay so let's try text
and the string I want also careful here
because my editor has automatically
completed this to use a capital letter
for some reason and I didn't want that
so make sure that you change that to
lowercase it's a text and I want the
actual value the stuff too sharp to be
the label and for X&Y I'm not really
sure like where this gets drawn
so I'm just gonna try this 2x and mr.wai
so the current XY position of the button
and I'll just adjust it from there and
try and get it right so this dot X this
door I so draw text where of like this
to label whatever the value of label is
at this do I exist
why ok let's save that and we can come
back over here fresh the page and okay
so we've got our text label showing up
but it's not really in a position I
would want it to be maybe we can just
let's start by trying to move it down a
little bit so it's more central and then
maybe we'll try and figure out if we can
move it along as well so I can move it
down by just making Y a bit bigger so I
can add some value to it maybe like 10
pixels let's see how that looks okay
maybe that's a bit better but not much
let's maybe add a few more 20 okay
that's roughly centered vertically so
I'm kind of happy with that and maybe so
I guess I could use the same approach
for centering it horizontally so I could
just like add some values to it until it
looks about right but the problem with
doing that is if the label was really
long then it's gonna be a different size
so if I nudged along it's still gonna be
off center but maybe I can use this text
align thing that I saw on the p5
reference because that seems like maybe
I could align it in like the center of
the button or something so okay yeah it
looks like I can call text-align:center
and that might help so I'm just gonna
probably paste this into my code and see
what happens
save that back over here you see here
how I actually like using this record
and just changing stuff is a really nice
way of like checking your code and like
seeing how it's working for you okay
that made it worse I think what it's
doing my guess I'm going to check it
again by making the label really long
yeah so it's it's centering it around
that x-coordinate which is okay I come
up with that so I know that if the width
is a hundred pixels then I can make this
centered by adding half of a hundred
pixels to the X which would be fifty
awesome
that looks good and if I make it really
long then it still looks reasonable cool
what if I make it like okay what goes
off the edges but I am really care about
that that's okay that's um I can just
refresh okay cool
this seems like a pretty reasonable
start we've added our draw method I'm
gonna commit my changes before I move on
so happen all let's just check what's
going on there cool the modified button
and modified sketch that's what we did
and you can commit now button to screen
the cool thing that we can do at this
point is we can already start to see how
we would reuse the button if I go back
to sketch to Jess
then I can create a new button in the
same way I'm just going to copy paste
this line and change a bit cat fun
change the label to cat change the
position 20 and if I tell that one to
draw as well then I should see a second
button on my screen awesome open cat bun
there's all the information for dog
button and there's all the information
for cat button and just same as usual I
can change all this stuff to make it
whatever I want which is kind of cool
so referring back to our class diagram
now we're making some pretty reasonable
progress we've got our attributes we've
got our constructor and there's also a
draw method that we forgot to include
down here that we've done as well the
next thing that I'm gonna add is this
contains point method because I want to
get that little hover effect working so
let's start by adding a new method
contains point and this method is gonna
actually take some inputs so it's gonna
take an x position and a Y position and
we're gonna do some comparisons with
those and hopefully at some point return
a true or a false to run let us know you
know whether or let us know whether or
not the button contains a point
and before we go in with the code I want
to spend a moment just talking about how
we're gonna figure this out okay so we
have a button and it looks kind of like
this and often what I find is there's
like a label on it
well I often find when I'm doing code
stuff is drawing something out makes
things a lot easier for me to understand
so first of all something that's useful
to think about here's the information
that I have about this button so we've
got that X Y coordinates which is this
position here and we've also got the
width and the height which are this and
this and those are all under the idea of
like this like the the current the
current object thingy we also have our
input X and y and that's gonna be maybe
a position here or position here or a
position here or here or whatever it is
and the ones that are inside this box we
want to return true for and the ones
that are outside the box we want to
return false
for and the rough sort of algorithm that
we use for this is we say let's look at
this line and this line and say anything
that's outside of there we don't we
don't want and anything that's outside
of there we also don't want
and then we say let's look at different
color this line and this line and say
anything that's outside of there we
don't want and anything that's outside
of there we don't want and what we're
left with is just the region inside the
box inside the button that we care about
so the bits of information that we need
are the coordinates for these lines the
green lines and the purple lines so the
green one is we've got the left and
that's just the x-coordinate of the box
our blue X and we've also got the right
side and that's a little bit different
we need to take X into account for that
but also include the width of the box so
the coordinate of this Green Line here
is the left plus the width of the box
and then for our ones in purple we can
do the same thing so we would have the
top here's Y and the bottom is y plus
the height of the button
so it's this position plus this arrow
gets us this so this is what we want to
translate into code
so how can we translate that into code
well we figured out that we needed those
[Music]
top left bottom right things so I'm
gonna create variables each of those so
left was just this two x the x
coordinate of the current button and
right was mr. X plus the width which is
a hundred then the top is this top Y and
the bottom is this 2y plus the height
which is thirty now I need to think
about those two ranges so we can say
create variables for both of those two
say whether or not we're in those ranges
so if we if it the position is in the
horizontal range then that means that X
is to the left of the left think so
left will be smaller no sorry X is to
the right of the left coordinate so left
is smaller than X and also X is to the
left of the right coordinate so X is
smaller than right so we're saying it's
in the horizontal range if X is bigger
than left and X is less than right and
same thing the vertical is the tick
range my and okay and we know that
ultimately
the button contains this XY point and
remember here this x and y are the
inputs to this method not the x and y of
the button that's the list of x
coordinates and we can say that the
answer to this question so we always
return the answer when we have a return
the output and we have a function or a
method that has some output is whether
or not it is in a horizontal range and
it is in the vertical range now I
actually know if this works I have no
idea but I can maybe test it if I flip
over to my console and try it out so if
i refresh the page here and I should be
able to say book button and ask if it
contains some points so maybe I know
that here zero zero is the bright like
in the top top left of the thing so it
shouldn't say yes first so it doesn't
contain zero zero sauce okay and maybe
we can ask somewhere we know it does
contain it so maybe we know it's at
position 10 10 here but maybe at like 20
20 is going to be just inside the button
so it should be true for 2020 and there
we go true now it would take me quite a
while to go and test like a bunch of
different points all over this button
but one way that I can maybe do that
quickly is by implementing that hover
then if I just move my mouse about a
bunch I'm gonna see whether or not it
hovers at the right time or not so I can
do that by changing the fill color so
first of all I'm actually before I
before I go and change the fill color in
here I'm gonna look back of this diagram
and add in this convenience like
contains mouse mouse method so we're
gonna have a method that uses another
method so contains Mouse doesn't take
any inputs and what it does is it just
returns this dot contains point now sex
that's why so we're gonna say when we do
contains mouse that means get the
current coordinates of the mouse x and y
and check if this this current button
that we're talking about right now
contains the point Mouse X Mouse Y so
over here in my rectangle I can probably
change the color with Phil I don't want
file this Phil Phil there we go and
maybe I want to start off like usually
at sort of lightish gray maybe like 2:00
2:30 let's see how that looks
oh ok so my background went to that
lightish gray but I think it's changed a
kind of the text as well so I'm gonna
change the fill of the text back to
black which is zero there we go that's
better that's better okay so I know I
can change the fill with this thing but
now I need to make a decision every
single time we come to draw out the
contents of the button as to what filled
to use so as I'm running as I need to
make a decision I need you if statement
and my question here is if this contains
maps
and we can see is telling us that the
result of that is a boolean so if this
if the current button contains an else
then I'm gonna fill 255 because that's
white otherwise our fill from before I
like gray so if this contains mouse set
the fill color to white otherwise set
the fill color to light gray and draw a
rectangle and once we're done set the
fill power back to black so we can draw
the text let's test this and there we go
awesome so we've got our buttons
changing color when we hover them now
I'm not actually that into this like
dark gray thing so I'm gonna maybe like
change the normal color to white and
this one - maybe like light sky-blue I
know just from reading the p55 reference
you can use some of these like color
names when you're writing your writing
your fill colors and I know that light
sky-blue is a color that exists and I
quite like I mean it's kind of ugly but
like it's better than these like
rubbishy grades we've been using okay
so we've got some buttons and we've got
our hover effect so we are coming along
pretty well the final thing is I think
to have it so that when we click our
buttons actually do something actually
show us the the noise that that our
animals make in our rubbish town board
and actually I'm not going to make any
changes inside button for this because
I've made this class button a generic
but and all of the stuff we put in him
at the moment could apply to any button
that does anything and if I add the
stuff that makes it make animal noises
then like that's suddenly a very
specific type of button and it means I
won't be able to reuse it as easily in
other places of my coat
I'd be like adding a button to like
close the app and it suddenly make it
animal noises that's not what I want so
I'm actually going to just go back to my
sketch touch yes and make the changes to
make the button show that animal noises
in here so to do that I need to add
another one of these special functions
that p5 knows about which is mouse
pressed and mouth pressed is one that
will get cooled whenever the mouse is
clicked and just to demonstrate I'm
going to add a console dot log in here
it says clicked and let's just include
the mouse coordinates as well just to
just to show what's happening so back
over here now wherever I click I'm gonna
get my clicked message and the
coordinates of maps so we have some
decisions to make when our mouse is
pressed we need to decide whether or not
to make our own voice and the way that
we can do that is with an if statement
as usual women making decisions and
we're going to ask first of all we're
gonna ask the dog button if it contains
the current position of the mouse same
as we did when we came to hovering and
if it does we're going to use an alert
and alert is a special function in
JavaScript that just in the browser pops
up a dialog box with some text in it
hello woof
and same for our cat button if cat
button contains Mouse
[Music]
then we can alert the cat noise save
that refresh the page and we have our
hover buttons and when we click the dog
it says woof and when we click the cat
it says Meowth truly the pinnacle of
digital innovation here with this
rubbish animal sound board but hopefully
this gives you a little bit of an idea
of how we can use classes to make our
code much more reusable than it would be
otherwise and hopefully as well I
actually find that classes make things
fairly easy to read like this contains
Mouse method and being able to write
things down here like if dhoka button
contains Mouse alert woof then like it's
very like clear almost English like
language that we use when we're writing
our code which means it's gonna be
really easy for someone else to come and
read this and kind of understand
hopefully more or less what's going on
now I'd like you to add a couple more
buttons so you shouldn't actually need
to change the button class at all just
reuse this here making sure we draw each
one and add the if any alert and if
you're fencing or planting an extra
challenge maybe see if you can use an
array of buttons because we can add
buttons to arrays to eliminate the
repetition of calling draw draw draw
draw
and having this repeated if contains
Mouse alert structure every single
button that you add that would be
interesting to see if you could if you
could figure that out I hope this has
been useful I hope you've been carrying
in following along with this and like
pausing it as you go and all that sort
of stuff
please go and vote on slack I would have
set up a vote on the link to this as to
like whether or not like this was
particularly helpful so yeah I would
love to see whether or not this is
something you think we should do more of
or not maybe maybe this was just rubbish
and that's okay too
if it's rubbish we're gonna do it again
which is fine because this is quite a
lot better so yeah anyway I don't know
do I
am i a youtuber now do I have to tell
you all to like and subscribe probably
not that sounds like a horrible thing to
do I'm just gonna stop the video like
really abruptly maybe like halfway
through a sin